my problem with fat acceptance and fat
positivity is not actually with the fat
side of the equation it's actually
questioning what we mean by positivity
by taking a positive attitude toward
something and this video I want to
reflect on that a little bit and for
those who come to this video identifying
as fat positive people I hope I can
actually lead you to question what that
means and what you're gonna do with that
concept moving forward and for those of
you who are just sitting back shocked
and horrified by the social media
phenomenon of fat acceptance of a
positive 'ti maybe I can give you a a
more positive angle on it and a way to
move forward I'm not I'm not joking I
hope this video serves a a positive
purpose for some of you and this video
is also in part a response to the unique
character of Andrew Marlowe who made a
video that inspired me to record this
one shall we say Andrew Marlowe is not
fat himself but he identifies as a
chubby admirer he's a man who prefers
the company of overweight women if
somebody tells you they've had an
accident
they're now disabled and they're gonna
spend the rest of their life in a
wheelchair they may share this news with
you and they may try to convey to you
that they have a positive attitude or
they may talk you through a series of
positive steps they're taking to cope
with the problem to do the best with the
situation they find themselves in
they're going through a process of
probably making modifications to their
car so they get a wheelchair into it and
out of it they may be having to make
modifications to their bathroom they may
of course be having trouble with
staircases and you might say back to
them this friend of yours this relative
or colleague of yours you might expect
them wow it's really great do you have
such a positive attitude toward the fact
that you're now confined to a wheelchair
but in this context positivity does not
mean
you're disregarding the nature of the
problem it means you're confronting the
problem and doing the best you can I had
a job when I lived in Thailand and I
think in that office I was the only
able-bodied person everyone else had
quite serious physical disabilities
there was one woman in a wheelchair
every single time she had to go to the
bathroom she would phone her husband or
phone a friend who I think worked in the
stockroom in a different part of the
complex to come up and physically lift
her out of her wheelchair put her on the
toilet wait outside and then take her
off the toilet and put her back in her
wheelchair right I mean she had a
wonderful life in many ways I lived
around her I got to know her in many
ways a better life that I didn't make
that I do now you know she'd really
gotten organized you could say she had a
very positive attitude towards coping
with her her disability but there's no
doubt it's a problem in her daily life I
remember seeing her husband take her out
of her wheelchair and physically carry
her up a flight of stairs and for her
that was a if not an everyday phenomenon
you know it was a regular part of her
life was relying on other people to lift
her and carry her and then move her
wheelchair for her and so on and you
know to say she had a positive attitude
would be in no way comparable to this
model of positivity whereby people are
now encouraging those who are extremely
overweight to live and behave and dress
and conduct themselves as if this is not
an encumbrance to the middle as if the
problem is not a problem as if it
doesn't exist now just like that woman
in the wheelchair
many of these extremely overweight
people will have difficulty getting up
and down a staircase just like the woman
in a wheelchair these extremely
overweight people who have a great deal
of trouble getting on to and getting off
of a public bus they'll have a great
deal of trouble say walking up a hill
the difference is there's something they
can do about it
maybe not today maybe not tomorrow but
soon their disability is in a very real
sense within their power to alleviate to
improve to solve their condition can end
or is that that specific woman that
co-worker of mine who's never gonna
change
she was gonna be in a wheelchair for the
rest of her life she was born with
malformed legs there was no way for her
to recover so imagine how strange you
must be for her to look at people who
are part of the so-called fad positivity
movement see people who are disabling
themselves and who claim they have a
positive attitude about it and to see
someone like Andrew Marlo who applauds
this apparently because it is ultimately
his sexual fetish and says they can do
anything they want to do they can be
anything want to be well can they Andrew
can they walk up a flight of stairs can
they write a public bus can they indeed
after a certain point even use a public
toilet all these things in life become
difficult and I know this to some extent
because now living in a Western society
I'm surrounded by people who are at
different stages of self-inflicted
disability just due to extreme obesity
no yes they should have a positive
attitude they should be encouraged to
have a positive attitude the same way
the disabled person in a wheelchair
should have a positive attitude being in
denial about the nature of the problem
the nature of the hard work that's ahead
of you in terms of coping with that
problem or improving it meliorate in it
whatever you want to say we can't
confuse positivity with the nihilism and
I don't want to be part of a culture
that celebrates self delusion and denial
ISM neither in modern Western internet
culture nor say within the culture of
tera vaada Buddhism in Southeast Asia I
used to be a Buddhist living in
countries like Thailand Laos Cambodia
and you get into very different types of
positive thinking self delusion there
you get into very different types of
positive thinking so pollution of
left-wing politics
and all these different theaters of been
involved in look guys I'm gonna be
self-critical here for a second I'm
unemployed I have a positive attitude
toward being unemployed I'm really
seriously and sincerely trying to make
the most out of this period of
unemployment and not just in terms of
looking for a job my girlfriend and I
right now we're going through a stack of
books that includes Aristotle Plato
Xenophon Cicero we're going through some
of the foundational texts of Western
philosophy political science lucidity 'z
again for those who don't know we're
doing some heavy reading we're learning
at a baked we're making a lot of our
food from scratch we're making we're
making our own bread obviously from
flour we're making our own soy milk from
scratch to working from whole soybeans
we're finding ways to both save money
and educate ourselves and improve
ourselves with the time that we've got
time a sort of opportunity that's
created by unemployment so I'd say I
have a positive attitude toward my
unemployment but think about how really
sick and self-defeating and debilitating
it would be for me if I had an
unemployment positive attitude in the
same sense as these many people on the
internet preach a a fat positive
attitude which from my perspective is
not truly positive all if I was
unemployment positive in the same sense
that andrew marlow talks about being fed
positive if I went around pretending
fundamentally that one this isn't a
problem that - this isn't my
responsibility and please keep in mind
there's a subtle and profound difference
between saying this is your
responsibility and saying this is your
fault I knew one person personally was a
friend of mine who actually became very
overweight very obese and it wasn't his
fault it was due to medical malpractice
not worth going into the details but he
was strapped down and hospitalised and
fed a diet through a tube and the
doctors gave him something like 10
more food that he was supposed to be
through a tube and he couldn't even talk
he was he went through surgery and he
came out of the surgery greatly
overweight it wasn't his fault
there were extreme cases like that but
ultimately apportioning fault is
irrelevant to what we're talking about
here we're talking about responsibility
it was it was his responsibility
it was his problem it was his challenge
what are you gonna do about it now
certainly it's an extreme contrast
someone who's born with a disability and
is in a wheelchair
it's not their fault but it's their
challenge it's their responsibility what
they're gonna do about it in terms of
their positive attitude or otherwise
it's up to them but there's no way we
can proceed from a denial of the
fundamental reality of the situation
this is a problem it's your problem and
it's your responsibility but all these
examples I've gotta say it's definitely
not in the power of that disabled person
to stand up out of their wheelchair and
learn how to walk again it may or may
not be in my power to get a job this is
the reality of unemployment always has
been I can do my best but nobody can
guarantee a positive outcome to that
situation nobody right but it definitely
is in your power starting today
to pursue a positive outcome that solves
obesity it's in your power it's in mine
if anything is under our control it's
the question of what goes into our
mouths and all of us as vegans or
aspiring vegan activist obviously if we
felt we were powerless over our diet our
political and moral movement would make
no sense at all so likewise it can't
make any sense at all if we regard
people as passive victims of their own
body type instead of being active
decisive players in a game in which
their own health and their own capacity
to make a positive difference the world
is very much in the line very much being
decided and the
case being diminished by fundamentally
matters of self-indulgence lack of
discipline etc I talk a lot in this
channel about a very simple ethical idea
that I know is out of style it's the
idea of doing the best you can I talked
to a man a couple of weeks ago and his
doctor told him that he has to lose 80
pounds just to be overweight he won't
lose 80 pounds to be thin he'll lose 80
pounds to get out of the category of
being at risk for sudden death basically
it's a huge challenge for him he's gotta
lose 80 pounds and he'll still be fat
he'll still be overweight and I gave him
encouragement I told them some positive
things from my experience and I offered
to put in touch with I know someone here
was a vegan trainer you know runs a
small gym you know I tried to be helpful
how could it possibly help him for me to
look in his eyes and say no you're not
fat that's just a figment of your
imagination that's just a matter of
self-image that's just an attitude or
state of mind